[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Intermittent fasting has
become popular for health
and weight loss.
But could fasting also be
a highly effective tool
for fighting and
reversing cancer?
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Across the world,
nearly every culture
has a tradition of fasting.
But in our modern lives, we've
created a world of surplus.
And with it, a constant
and easily satiated hunger.
And with this excess
food, our society
has become plagued by
diseases of excess.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Dr. Alan Goldhamer
is the Founder
of TrueNorth Health Foundation,
a therapeutic clinic
for water-only fasting that
helps patients suffering
from a range of
illnesses, including
hypertension, inflammation,
autoimmune disorders,
and cancer.
>> And we've gone from being
criminal quacks to cutting edge
researchers, because this
idea of fasting has definitely
gained some popular support.
We think very different.
We believe that there is
a cause of real health.
And there is a cause for health.
And the cause is
healthful living.
So we focus on diet,
sleep, exercise.
And we use fasting to undo the
consequences of dietary excess
essentially.
And that's why the conditions
that respond best to fasting
are the conditions caused by
dietary excess, so obesity,
and high blood pressure,
cardiovascular disease, type 2
diabetes, autoimmune diseases,
and certain forms of cancer,
including lymphoma.
>> Studies have shown
that fasting acts to help
the body's natural ability to
destroy dead or disease cells,
a process called autophagy.
Now, doctors have
begun to study how
fasting protocols in
conjunction with drugs,
such as chemotherapy, can
improve the efficacy of cancer
treatment.
>> It turns out that autophagy
is that process the body uses
to get rid of intracellular
debris, aging cells,
and cancer cells.
And it turns out that fasting
is one of those things that
may profoundly enhance
autophagy in not just humans,
but also in other animals.
In fact, rats, if you do
periodic fasting with rats,
you can double their lifespan,
everything else being equal.
So this is something that's
very interesting and promising.
I don't know that
we have what I would
consider definitive
research on the issue.
But it certainly raises one of
the mechanisms by which fasting
may also be effective.
You get weight loss from
fasting, about a pound a day.
It's probably the
most efficient way
of mobilizing not just
weight, but specifically fat,
and preferentially visceral fat.
So it turns out the amount
of visceral fat mobilized
in fasting is preferential.
It's probably the most
efficient way shown today
at preferentially
mobilizing visceral fat,
the type of fat associated with
inflammation and ill health.
>> Goldhamer stresses the
importance of a holistic
and healthy lifestyle approach
after seeing positive results
from fasting regimens, a
concept that is often absent
in mainstream medicine.
>> You can get people
to live healthfully.
Even if you don't fast,
many of these conditions
will begin to improve.
We've noticed that
recently, because we're
booked out for several months.
And so people can't
come in right away.
And so they'll work
with our doctors
through our
telemedicine practice.
And they'll work
with these doctors.
And annoyingly, they're
often getting well
before we even get to them.
And because health results
from healthful living.
It's diet, sleep, exercise.
These are the dominant
factors that promote health.
Fasting is a useful
tool as a facilitator
to speed that process.
And in fairness,
sometimes people
have done the diet
and lifestyle,
but they're still struggling.
And so therefore, fasting
can be a very important tool,
but allowing things to
happen more quickly.
>> Dr. Goldhamer's clinic offers
free consultations to potential
candidates for
long-term water fasts,
and will continue to conduct
research into the therapeutic
benefits of fasting for
treating chronic illness.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.